#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.8
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
accessible-pygments==0.0.4
    # via pydata-sphinx-theme
alabaster==0.7.13
    # via sphinx
altair==5.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   vegafusion
anyio==3.7.1
    # via jupyter-server
appdirs==1.4.4
    # via pyppeteer
argon2-cffi==21.3.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.2.3
    # via isoduration
asttokens==2.2.1
    # via stack-data
async-lru==2.0.3
    # via jupyterlab
attrs==23.1.0
    # via
    #   cattrs
    #   fiona
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   referencing
    #   requests-cache
babel==2.12.1
    # via
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
backcall==0.2.0
    # via ipython
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx-tippy
black==23.7.0
    # via -r requirements.in
bleach==6.0.0
    # via nbconvert
cattrs==23.1.2
    # via requests-cache
certifi==2023.5.7
    # via
    #   fiona
    #   pyppeteer
    #   pyproj
    #   requests
cffi==1.15.1
    # via argon2-cffi-bindings
charset-normalizer==3.2.0
    # via requests
click==8.1.4
    # via
    #   black
    #   click-plugins
    #   cligj
    #   fiona
    #   jupyter-book
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   sphinx-external-toc
click-plugins==1.1.1
    # via fiona
cligj==0.7.2
    # via fiona
comm==0.1.3
    # via ipykernel
contourpy==1.1.0
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.11.0
    # via matplotlib
debugpy==1.6.7
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
docutils==0.18.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-book
    #   myst-parser
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-togglebutton
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
exceptiongroup==1.1.2
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   cattrs
executing==1.2.0
    # via stack-data
fastjsonschema==2.17.1
    # via nbformat
fiona==1.9.5
    # via geopandas
fonttools==4.42.1
    # via matplotlib
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
geopandas==0.13.2
    # via -r requirements.in
greenlet==2.0.2
    # via sqlalchemy
html2text==2020.1.16
    # via -r requirements.in
idna==3.4
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==6.8.0
    # via
    #   fiona
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbconvert
    #   pyppeteer
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
importlib-resources==6.0.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyterlab
    #   matplotlib
    #   sphinx-jupyterbook-latex
ipykernel==6.24.0
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   myst-nb
ipython==8.12.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   myst-nb
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
isort==5.12.0
    # via -r requirements.in
jedi==0.18.2
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   altair
    #   jupyter-book
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   myst-parser
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-tippy
json5==0.9.14
    # via jupyterlab-server
jsonpointer==2.4
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.18.0
    # via
    #   altair
    #   jupyter-book
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbformat
jsonschema-specifications==2023.6.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter-book==0.15.1
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyter-cache==0.6.1
    # via myst-nb
jupyter-client==8.3.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
jupyter-core==5.3.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
jupyter-events==0.6.3
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-lsp==2.2.0
    # via jupyterlab
jupyter-server==2.7.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-code-formatter
    #   jupyterlab-myst
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   notebook-shim
jupyter-server-terminals==0.4.4
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab==4.0.2
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyterlab-code-formatter==2.2.1
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyterlab-code-snippets==2.2.1
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyterlab-myst==2.0.1
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-server==2.23.0
    # via jupyterlab
jupytext==1.15.2
    # via -r requirements.in
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
latexcodec==2.0.1
    # via pybtex
linkify-it-py==2.0.2
    # via jupyter-book
markdown-it-py==2.2.0
    # via
    #   jupytext
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   myst-parser
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
matplotlib==3.7.2
    # via wordcloud
matplotlib-inline==0.1.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mdit-py-plugins==0.3.5
    # via
    #   jupytext
    #   myst-parser
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mistune==3.0.1
    # via nbconvert
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via black
myst-nb==0.17.2
    # via jupyter-book
myst-parser==0.18.1
    # via myst-nb
nbclient==0.7.4
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbconvert
nbconvert==7.6.0
    # via jupyter-server
nbformat==5.9.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupytext
    #   myst-nb
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
nest-asyncio==1.5.6
    # via ipykernel
notebook-shim==0.2.3
    # via jupyterlab
numpy==1.24.4
    # via
    #   altair
    #   contourpy
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   pyarrow
    #   shapely
    #   wordcloud
overrides==7.3.1
    # via jupyter-server
packaging==23.1
    # via
    #   black
    #   geopandas
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-code-formatter
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   matplotlib
    #   nbconvert
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
pandas==2.0.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   altair
    #   geopandas
    #   vegafusion
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
parso==0.8.3
    # via jedi
pathspec==0.11.1
    # via black
pexpect==4.8.0
    # via ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via ipython
pillow==10.0.0
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   wordcloud
pkgutil-resolve-name==1.3.10
    # via jsonschema
platformdirs==3.8.1
    # via
    #   black
    #   jupyter-core
    #   requests-cache
prometheus-client==0.17.1
    # via jupyter-server
prompt-toolkit==3.0.39
    # via ipython
protobuf==4.25.1
    # via vegafusion
psutil==5.9.5
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   vegafusion
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   pexpect
    #   terminado
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pyarrow==14.0.1
    # via vegafusion
pybtex==0.24.0
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pybtex-docutils==1.0.2
    # via sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pydata-sphinx-theme==0.13.3
    # via sphinx-book-theme
pyee==8.2.2
    # via pyppeteer
pygments==2.15.1
    # via
    #   accessible-pygments
    #   ipython
    #   nbconvert
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via matplotlib
pyppeteer==1.0.2
    # via -r requirements.in
pyproj==3.5.0
    # via geopandas
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
python-dotenv==1.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via jupyter-events
pytz==2023.3
    # via
    #   babel
    #   pandas
pyyaml==6.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-book
    #   jupyter-cache
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupytext
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   pybtex
    #   sphinx-external-toc
pyzmq==25.1.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
referencing==0.29.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   requests-cache
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-tippy
requests-cache==1.1.0
    # via -r requirements.in
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rpds-py==0.8.10
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
send2trash==1.8.2
    # via jupyter-server
shapely==2.0.2
    # via geopandas
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   fiona
    #   latexcodec
    #   pybtex
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
    #   url-normalize
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via anyio
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.4.1
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==5.0.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-book
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sphinx-book-theme
    #   sphinx-comments
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-design
    #   sphinx-external-toc
    #   sphinx-jupyterbook-latex
    #   sphinx-multitoc-numbering
    #   sphinx-thebe
    #   sphinx-tippy
    #   sphinx-togglebutton
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
sphinx-book-theme==1.0.1
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-comments==0.0.3
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-design==0.3.0
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-external-toc==0.3.1
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-jupyterbook-latex==0.5.2
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-multitoc-numbering==0.1.3
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-thebe==0.2.1
    # via jupyter-book
sphinx-tippy==0.4.1
    # via -r requirements.in
sphinx-togglebutton==0.3.2
    # via jupyter-book
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.4
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-bibtex==2.5.0
    # via jupyter-book
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.2
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-mermaid==0.9.2
    # via -r requirements.in
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.3
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.5
    # via sphinx
sqlalchemy==2.0.18
    # via jupyter-cache
stack-data==0.6.2
    # via ipython
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via jupyter-cache
terminado==0.17.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
toml==0.10.2
    # via jupytext
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   black
    #   jupyterlab
toolz==0.12.0
    # via altair
tornado==6.3.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   terminado
tqdm==4.66.1
    # via pyppeteer
traitlets==5.9.0
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
typing-extensions==4.7.1
    # via
    #   altair
    #   async-lru
    #   black
    #   cattrs
    #   ipython
    #   myst-nb
    #   myst-parser
    #   pydata-sphinx-theme
    #   sqlalchemy
tzdata==2023.3
    # via pandas
uc-micro-py==1.0.2
    # via linkify-it-py
uri-template==1.3.0
    # via jsonschema
url-normalize==1.4.3
    # via requests-cache
urllib3==1.26.18
    # via
    #   pyppeteer
    #   requests
    #   requests-cache
vegafusion[embed]==1.4.4
    # via -r requirements.in
vegafusion-python-embed==1.4.4
    # via vegafusion
vl-convert-python==1.1.0
    # via vegafusion
wcwidth==0.2.6
    # via prompt-toolkit
webcolors==1.13
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.6.1
    # via jupyter-server
websockets==10.4
    # via pyppeteer
wheel==0.40.0
    # via sphinx-togglebutton
wordcloud==1.9.2
    # via -r requirements.in
zipp==3.16.0
    # via
    #   importlib-metadata
    #   importlib-resources

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
